>> Jem Young: And
when we size a server it's called a VPS,
that's a Virtual Private Server.
Again because when you're manipulating it,
it looks like you have an entire server
to yourself but in reality you just have
a chunk of a box, of a piece of a server.
And I can pay five bucks a month and
you get a chunk of a server rather
than having to run an entire server.
And this is only possible through
the advantages of the way of threading and
process isolation and honestly operating
systems have got better about having
different processes
running at the same time.
And we'll talk more about that tomorrow
when we talk about containers and
why they are game changers in terms
of VPSs and how we wholly run things.
But for today, just the basics,
we're not gonna get too complicated.
So today what we're gonna need is
we're gonna need to buy the VPS.
So essentially we're
gonna buy server time.
Fortunately, unlike last time,
I have my referral link in here.
So if you use this
DigitalOcean referral link.
You have to put in your credit card.
But what you get is you get
$50 in free credits, and
that's enough to run your server for
ten months for free.
So last time, I felt bad cuz you
had spend like five bucks or
something to run a server.
You'll get free credits, and I get free
credits so it's kind of a win win.
So go ahead and go to DigitalOcean and
I'll walk you through
kind of which server you wanna
buy exactly what's happening.
And if you already have a server running,
probably buy another one because we want
a fresh server on the right installation.
If you're on an old version of Ubuntu or
Fedora or something like that,
commands are gonna be
a little bit different.
I'm going to go to DigitalOcean.
>> Jem Young: DigitalOcean account,
I logged in.
>> Jem Young: So I'll give you
a minute to walk through the sign up.
When you get through the sign up, and
if you don't already have an account,
you'll be presented with
a screen like that.
We'll actually call,
I'm gonna start a new project.
You don't have to do this,
it's just for my sake.
>> Jem Young: Stack front end to.
>> Jem Young: It's okay,
it's educational purposes.
>> Jem Young: So now hopefully you're
all set up on DigitalOcean account.
Putting credit card,
giving some free credits.
I'll be getting some free
credits more importantly.
And if you're wondering why choose
DigitalOcean as the host and
provider cuz there's a lot of them there.
There's AWS, there's Azure,
there's lots of different types of hosts.
I choose DigitalOcean because, to me, it
has the cleanest UI and the simplest UI.
For example, this is AWS for
my website, it's hosted.
So if you go to AWS you're like, what?
What do I do now?
And you're like, I need to use an EC2
because EC2 is their virtual servers.
So you have to know that ahead of time.
And then you're like now I wanna start
an EC2 incidence, what do I wanna do?
You click launch incidence,
I don't get this.
So for learning I wouldn't say
AWS is the best place to go.
It's a bit more powerful and
AWS has more features than DigitalOcean.
But for learning we're using DigitalOcean.
That's why,
give you my reasoning yet things.
So what we wanna do is get
started with the Droplets.
So just click Get Started with a Droplet,
they will start animation.
And now you have to choose an image.
An image is a copy of a base OS.
So a baseline operating system and
baseline different types of CPU compute.
You don't have to create a project,
you can just create a droplet if you
wanna also click Create droplet.
A droplet is their idea is stick
with an easy to use the VPS.
That part doesn't matter but
good question, Anwar.
And anybody watching this in their
screen doesn't quite look like this.
Dissolution may change up their UI.
I don't know they could be
running AB test for all I know.
But don't worry about that.
Just listen to kind of the baseline of
what we're saying and just follow along.
Cuz again, DigitalOcean they have
a nice UI, it's nice and shiny.
What we wanna choose is
we wanna choose Ubuntu,
which is going to be
the default one chosen.
And we wanna make sure we're on the LTS
version and not the one above and
not the one below, because the commands
will work slightly differently
depending on the version of Ubuntu.